well Elsewhere for many in the Middle
East it was a very different passage
into
2024 Israelis marked the New Year to the
sound of Air Raid Sirens after Hamas
militants fired Rockets out of Gaza and
Palestinian civilians in the narrow
territory saw little hope for a better
year as Israel's military said that it
was planning for a long War to eradicate
Hamas after its October 7th terror
attack against
Israel the stroke of midnight a barrage
of rockets and flares Light Up the Sky
over
Gaza Sirens activate as Hamas fires a
new wave of
rockets intercepted over Tel
Aviv a new year brings no respite for
both
sides Palestinians displaced in the
masasi camp say there is nothing left to
celebrate
My Tragedy lives inside me the outside
world does not feel it at
all let them have their celebrations and
leave me to live My
Tragedy but many still hope their wishes
for 2024 can somehow become reality they
dream of one day returning to their
homes and mourning all they've
lost I lost my son my son-in-law the
most precious people how will I receive
the New Year my wish is to return to
visit their graves retrieve the bodies
under the rubble this is my wish for
2024 earlier in the day as Israeli
troops carried out more raids in Gaza
the Israeli military announced some of
its own plans for
2024 Israel set thousands of reservists
will be allowed a temporary return to
civilian life
some of the reservist soldiers will
return to their families and their jobs
this week this will allow a significant
relief for the economy and will allow
them to gather strength ahead of the
coming activities in the next year and
the fighting will continue and we will
need them these adjustments are meant to
ensure planning and preparation for the
rest of
2024 a clear signal that Israel is in
this for the long hul
correspondent Tanya Kramer is standing
by in Jerusalem so Tanya we've heard
that Hamas has fired several rockets at
Israel last night bring us up to
date well this what happened uh just at
midnight a massive rocket barrage came
out of Gaza towards Southern uh Israel
but also towards Central Israel
including uh T aiv where the air raid
Sant uh went off and people had to take
shelter so it shows that 3 months into
the war Hamas militants are still
capable of launching uh such Rockets
although there have been less Rockets
according to the Israeli military in the
past couple of weeks at the same time
the military also said that it's
continuing its ground operations and uh
air uh strikes uh across uh the Gaza
Strip at this uh at this point meantime
Israel's farri Finance Minister has
called for Palestinians to leave Gaza
and Make Way for Israelis who could and
I'm quoting him here make the Desert
Bloom tell us more about how that
statement is being
received well that's right these were
comments made in an interview by uh
prime minister Benin netanyahu's farri
right Coalition partner bet smwi he is
finance minister he also holds a
portfolio in the defense uh Ministry uh
he is part of the rder security cabinet
not of the decision-making uh smaller
so-called uh War cabinet he basically uh
uh said that Israel should encourage
residents uh uh from Gaza to leave Gaza
and also uh to resettle Gaza now uh uh
Israel was in Gaza with its own
settlements until up to 2005 when it
then withdrew its settlements it later
put a closure on Gaza when Hamas seized
power there in 20 2007 largely
controlling what went in and out of Gaza
for the past 16 years now um of course
these statements are of very much
concern great concern for Palestinians
but also for other Arab Nations watching
very closely what are the plans and
scenarios put forward uh by Israel
they're not shared by most of the
security establishment and also that at
odds uh with what positions put forward
and ideas put forward by Israel's main
La the United States um we're expecting
us Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
coming this week and we're expecting
more discussions on uh what will post uh
Gaza postwar Gaza look like DW
correspondent Tanya Kramer thank you
let's pick up some of those points with
Frank ledwitch he's a former UK Military
Intelligence officer who now lectures in
strategic studies at the UK's Portsmouth
University he joins us from Oxford
welcome back to DW Frank
this point about the Israel's war in
Gaza covering the whole of 2024 if it
does last that long uh what are the
likely consequences for the
region good morning Phil happy New Year
there's no doubt at all that this war at
whatever scale of intensity will last
throughout this year and probably the
years afterwards and this is something I
think that's concerning the IDF the
Israeli Army very much not not not only
them of course uh also jumping over the
political level of Israel the United
States because there's no clear idea
what form the rest of the war or the
rest of the conflict in Gaza will take
at the moment we have no idea what the
political track will be and of course
from a military perspective the Army
wants to the IDF want to know that so
that they can shape operations to lead
up to it what they call phase four
there's no sign of that and at that at
that political level it's very clear
there's a great deal of exasperation on
the part of the us and specifically
President Biden with
Netanyahu uh with respect to getting
some answers on that so coming back to
the point of a long War there's no doubt
there will be a long war in Gaza it may
well take years the nature of the war so
far has made it almost certain that
there will be some form of Insurgency
afterwards the question is will the
Israelis have responsibility at the uh
uh the civilian Administration level
which raises other issues and then of
course and you know this is an entirely
separate possibly even more serious
matter what will Israel do about about
Hezbollah in the north Israeli ministers
have said made statements concerning whe
we're going to solve all our problems
well if that's the case and they want to
do that militarily that raises a whole
new box of problems right to put it
mildly okay um so many things in there
just just to pick up on one of the
points you made there why are there
these difficulties in getting word from
um uh the Israel's government about how
this war will uh uh progress for the
next year why is it difficult uh for
America America uh to get that
information I would suspect that uh
there are disputes in the Israeli
government as to how this is going to be
done the they're under pressure now from
the Army leadership for an aners what
will as they call it phase four look
like now phase one are the initial
assaults pH phase two is where we're in
now that's the fighting phase phase
three they're moving into or they say
they are transitioning winding down
intensely and phase four is what happens
afterwards as the military say day the
day after the British and Americans had
this huge problem in Iraq which doomed
the campaign and the Israeli military
are very concerned they don't make the
same mistake and clearly they're finding
it very difficult to get answers from
the government as to what the day after
will and should look like and of course
they need to plan for that now who knows
what's going on inside the Israeli
government they're under pressure from
The Americans on various levels uh very
little leverage being applied but that's
the problem and it's becoming a real
problem I think within the the war
fighting decision makers right meanwhile
what we have seen is Israel withdrawing
some of its reservists from the Gaza
strips so what does that tell us
strategically
okay what that tells us is that the
Israelis are in fact moving from phase
two which as I said is the high
intensity phase and these are normal
military I say normal these are the
terms used in military campaigns of this
kind so we're moving from phase two the
high intensity as Israeli said they
would into phase three which is which is
winding down into the more into the
longer term so the brigades that are
coming out there are five brigades
brigades about 3,000 people depending on
it's its uh role
uh and there are five of them coming out
so it's a fraction of the of the of the
force in G already these are training
brigades so what they want to do is is
put those all Reserve is they going to
be put back into society and they may
well be redeployed and it's just the
mechanisms that by which the Army
functions it's called ront the
likelihood is at some point they'll be
replaced or they'll be pushed back in um
or or perhaps even redeployed okay so
it's all part of the cycle and and
finally the US Navy says it sunk several
yeny houy Rebels uh Rebel boats in the
Red Sea killing some of the crew um
briefly how concerning is this when we
talk about Regional
contagion well that is regional
contagion it's extremely concerning
we're looking at bringing Iran into a
much rer Regional War involving not just
the US and Iran and of course Israel but
indeed European powers as well Britain
Britain included thank you for that to
Frank eminently
concise